okay let's jump forward a hundred years
to the year
2120. come on play along you're in the
stands for the finals of your beloved
sport
fencing your two favorites are going up
against each other
lightsaber noises are the most intense
sounds in the room
you can almost feel the walls vibrate
plasma going up against plasma
the contestants are both wearing
protective gear made from a material
plasma can't cut through
that's the sound they make when they're
cutting through air steel fencing swords
are a thing of the past
lightsabers are what's cool now just the
other day during thanksgiving
you could see your neighbor from your
window he was using his own lightsaber
to cut through his turkey
all his knives must fit dirty he sent
you a picture afterwards
and as it turns out it ended up being a
little too well done
after the heat from the plasma well back
to this year
lightsabers are still not real but they
are something
everyone would love to get their hands
on they're about as futuristic and fun
as swords can get
imagine a blade made of plasma that
comes out and retracts whenever you want
and the only thing you have to carry
around is a handle
in star wars they were also called laser
swords
well it makes sense remember those tiny
little lasers you played around with
when you were a kid
those were fun they were the size of
your finger and could help you point at
anything
they had that red light that came out
from one end
cats went nuts for them too they still
do if you have a laser and you point it
at the wall with your cat
paying attention it'll instantly run at
it if you turn it off
they'll be all confused and start
looking everywhere for it
some dogs too in the movies lightsabers
are used both
offensively and defensively there's no
need for a shield like in ancient times
they also cut through almost everything
except other lightsabers
still the one thing star wars universe
has that we don't
is the material that makes lightsabers
possible kyber crystals
those don't actually exist technically
building a lightsaber is possible
although hard
since you know we're not jedis or
mandalorians
the first thing you need to make your
lightsaber dream a reality
is plasma and you might be wondering
what exactly is
plasma it's superheated matter and often
called the fourth state of matter
the first three states are solid liquid
and gas plasma makes up over 99 percent
of our visible universe
at night you can see it in the form of
stars nebulas and those lights you can
see at the north and south poles
it's controllable too with the help of
magnetic forces you can mold and shape
plasma
but for it to work like it does in the
movies you'd need very large and bulky
equipment
and that wouldn't exactly fit in your
hand we don't know for sure what size it
would have to be
but imagine it's the size of a car all
excited you tell your friends you have a
lightsaber
but it's in your garage still very
impressive
you all walked your house open your
garage door and
there it is your very own bulky large
plasma equipment thing it has a switch
on the side for the plasma to come out
you press it and a two foot beam of blue
plasma flies up to the ceiling
your friends are in awe it's the first
time they've seen the fourth state of
matter
after you turn it off you can see the
spot on the ceiling where the plasma hit
it left a mark it's definitely not safe
to store outside
what if someone tries to play with it
this equipment would also need to be as
powerful as a nuclear reactor
let's leave those at the nuclear power
plants for now
there are people who already built a
somewhat realistic lightsaber
or protosaber the way they did this was
by having the plasma eject out of a
metal handle
they had to carry around a backpack to
fuel the plasma
otherwise it wouldn't have worked the
key ingredient for this whole thing
is laminar flow laminar flow is when the
particles of a fluid
all flow in parallel lines the other
type of flow is more wacky
scientific word which is where the
particles flow randomly
and in opposite directions if it wasn't
for laminar flow
the plasma from the lightsaber would
take off in any direction it felt like
the lightsaber's fuel is liquid gas
which combined with oxygen and a spark
allows the plasma to flow in a straight
line and to be controlled
so to start with the gas from the fuel
backpack
flows in a laminar flow which is then
directed into the lightsaber's handle
the fuel has to be highly concentrated
then
you need a spark after this the plasma
will be ejected from the handle
and that's it you've got a lightsaber
this plasma beam will burn at insanely
high temperatures
which means it can cut through a lot of
stuff or you know
burn it all this means
is that technically a real life
lightsaber is
possible but you'd have to lug around a
massive backpack with fuel
and combine it with oxygen to ignite it
which is a very
dangerous thing to do but unlike in the
movies it's not sturdy like a sword
would be
it's a flow of plasma and when you try
to cut things with it
the plasma flow won't stay exactly the
same
another option for a real life
lightsaber is a proto saber
proto sabers need fuel to operate and
are very dangerous too
simply put they're really hot blades
that burn so bright
that have almost the same appearance as
a lightsaber
now if you still want a lightsaber but
don't want to take the risks that come
with it
awesome led lightsabers exist they're
fairly simple
usually they're just a tube that
contains an led and when you press the
button it turns it on
it shines bright like a real lightsaber
some of them will make the zoom
noise too they're a thousand times safer
and you can even buy them as gifts
there's also the option of a laser
lightsaber it's just a handle like a
normal laser
but a lot more powerful than the ones
you used to play with
these ones come with warnings because of
how powerful they are
you might even have to wear glasses to
protect your eyes
they can even be powerful enough to cut
through stuff
okay but what if you just want to play
with plasma but
not a lightsaber you still can there are
plasma globes you can buy and play
around with
a plasma globe is a glass sphere that
contains a lot of odorless
colorless single atom gases that won't
explode or anything
they have an electric conductor in the
middle and when you feed some voltage
through it
you get plasma inside the globe because
your body conducts electricity
when you place your hand on one of these
globes energy flows into it
it's pretty cool because you can see
plasma in action
with the help of a small container bam
technology
when real lightsabers come around we're
probably going to be at a place in time
where spaceships might actually exist i
mean real spaceships
okay picture this you wake up one
morning feeling like you want to take a
trip
but not to anywhere on earth you've
already seen too much of it
so you pick up your lightsaber handle
and put it safely in your pocket
then you take a look at your wristband
tap it twice
and your holographic phone pops out book
me a seat two weeks from now on the next
earth to mars flight please
and you go about your daily life you
walk out the door and get on your wheel
this motorbike
it has jet propellers where the wheel
should be and they swirl around so
you're able to control the direction
you're going
after taking the high up in the sky
invisible road made just for flying
vehicles
you arrive at your office you sit on
your comfortable chair
ready to get some work done today you're
in the mood for something different
and you decide you want to work in paris
no worries
you turn on the holographic scenery and
there you are
two weeks later you embark on the
spaceship you bought a ticket for
earlier that month ready for a new
adventure wait a life
hey doesn't that guy over there look
like arnold schwarzenegger